chore(main): Revert Documentation Quickstart Guides to AWS from XKCD #2560 (#19355)
cloudquery/cloudquery: website/components/mdx/_configure.mdx

}

{/* <!-- vale on --> */}

## Create a Sync Configuration

CloudQuery supports many [sources](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/source) and [destinations](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/destination).

In this guide we'll create a configuration to sync from the [AWS source](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/source/cloudquery/aws/latest/docs) to the [SQLite destination](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/destination/cloudquery/sqlite/latest/docs) using the [`init`](/docs/reference/cli/cloudquery_init) command.

Run the following command to create a configuration file:

<InitCommand os={props.os} />

<Callout type="info">
To pick from a list of available sources and destinations, run the [`init`](/docs/reference/cli/cloudquery_init) command without any arguments.

By default, when you run the script, it will sync the `aws_ec2_instances` table. You can find all the available resources you can sync on the [AWS source plugin page](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/source/cloudquery/aws/latest/tables).

</Callout>

## Authenticate to AWS

> CloudQuery supports authenticating to your AWS instance several different ways.
> 
> The CloudQuery AWS plugin needs to be authenticated with your account(s) in order to sync information from your cloud setup.
> 
> The plugin requires only read permissions (we will never make any changes to your cloud setup), so, following the principle of the least privilege, it's recommended to grant it read-only permissions.
> 
> There are [multiple ways to authenticate with AWS](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/source/cloudquery/aws/latest/docs#authentication). Be sure you authenticate before you run your first sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CloudQuery AWS plugin requires read only permissions in order to sync information from your AWS cloud environment.

There are [several different methods for authenticating to your AWS cloud environment](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/source/cloudquery/aws/latest/docs#authentication). Be sure you authenticate before you run your first sync.
```

Once the sync is done you can query the data via the database directly via the [`sqlite3`](https://www.sqlite.org/cli.html) command line tool or any other SQLite client.

Run the following command to get your oldest 10 EC2 instances:

<SqliteCommand os={props.os} />

The output should look like this:

```
account_id  instance_id              region            launch_time
---  ------------------------ ----------------  -------------------

> 1    i-0jklm0123nopq4567      us-west-1         2021-06-10 07:30:00
> 2    i-0ijkl9012mnop3456      ca-central-1      2021-07-25 12:40:00
> 3    i-0hijk8901lmno2345      sa-east-1         2021-08-15 15:10:00
> 4    i-0ghij7890klmn1234      eu-central-1      2021-08-30 11:50:00
> 5    i-0fghi6789jklm0123      us-east-2         2021-09-05 17:20:00
> 6    i-0efgh5678ijkl9012      ap-northeast-1    2021-10-25 08:00:00
> 7    i-0defg4567hijk8901      ap-southeast-1    2021-11-10 13:15:00
> 8    i-0cdef3456ghij7890      eu-west-1         2021-11-20 09:45:00
> 9    i-0bcde2345fghi6789      us-west-2         2021-12-15 14:30:00
> 10   i-0abcd1234efgh5678      us-east-1         2022-01-01 10:00:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
012345678901    i-0jklm0123nopq4567      us-west-1         2021-06-10 07:30:00
012345678901    i-0ijkl9012mnop3456      ca-central-1      2021-07-25 12:40:00
012345678901    i-0hijk8901lmno2345      sa-east-1         2021-08-15 15:10:00
012345678901    i-0ghij7890klmn1234      eu-central-1      2021-08-30 11:50:00
012345678901    i-0fghi6789jklm0123      us-east-2         2021-09-05 17:20:00
012345678901    i-0efgh5678ijkl9012      ap-northeast-1    2021-10-25 08:00:00
012345678901    i-0defg4567hijk8901      ap-southeast-1    2021-11-10 13:15:00
012345678901    i-0cdef3456ghij7890      eu-west-1         2021-11-20 09:45:00
012345678901    i-0bcde2345fghi6789      us-west-2         2021-12-15 14:30:00
012345678901   i-0abcd1234efgh5678      us-east-1         2022-01-01 10:00:00
```

Let's use an number that can be a valid account ID?

Once the sync is done you can query the data via the database directly via the [`sqlite3`](https://www.sqlite.org/cli.html) command line tool or any other SQLite client.

Run the following command to get your oldest 10 EC2 instances:

<SqliteCommand os={props.os} />

The output should look like this:

```

> num  instance_id              region            launch_time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
account_id  instance_id              region            launch_time
```

`num` is a remnant of XKCD and we should update the values too
